---
   layout: default
   title: 两个容器网络互通
   tags: Docker Centos
---

# {{ page.title }}
{{ page.date | date: "%Y-%m-%d" }}

# 问题
在Centos 7宿主机上安装的Docker 17.12.0-ce，启动了Gitlab和Read The Docs两个容器，两个容器通过端口映射后宿主机都可以正常访问。Read The Docs容器中`Ping` Gitlab网络正常，但是用wget访问Gitlab报`no route to host `错误。多方查找解法方案如下：

# 解决方案
## 快速解决
以管理员身份运行以下命令就可以快速解决问题，想了解详细信息请看下节：
```
nmcli connection modify docker0 connection.zone trusted
systemctl stop NetworkManager.service
firewall-cmd --permanent --zone=trusted --change-interface=docker0
systemctl start NetworkManager.service
nmcli connection modify docker0 connection.zone trusted
systemctl restart docker.service
```

## 详细说明
The explained version and how to check everything worked

The current workaround that seems to work ends up creating a `trusted.xml` file AND a `ifcfg-docker0` file. The `trusted.xml` file would set the zone after a reboot (read and used by firewalld) and the `ifcfg-docker0` would set the zone after reload or restart of services and interface or connections restarted (read and used mainly by NetworkManager).

To achieve that:

- After having the new interface (e.g. after installing Docker) and having FirewallD enabled and started, set the zone of the interface with NetworkManager's `nmcli`:
```
nmcli connection modify docker0 connection.zone trusted
```
...that would set the zone in NetworkManager and FirewallD for the current session and will create the `ifcfg-docker0` file for services, network or interfaces' restarts and reloads.

- Check that the file was created with:
```
cat /etc/sysconfig/network-scripts/ifcfg-docker0
```
...it should output something like:
```
DEVICE=docker0
STP=no
BRIDGING_OPTS=ageing_time=299
TYPE=Bridge
BOOTPROTO=none
IPADDR=172.17.0.1
PREFIX=16
DEFROUTE=yes
IPV4_FAILURE_FATAL=no
IPV6INIT=no
NAME=docker0
UUID=5ccc8292-95a2-40d5-9ed6-ab6202fa629e
ONBOOT=no
ZONE=trusted
```

...specifically, it should have a:
```
ZONE=trusted
```
- Now we need FirewallD to generate that `trusted.xml` file so that it uses it while booting, but for FirewallD to write that file it must think that NetworkManager is not active, so stop NetworkManager:
```
systemctl stop NetworkManager.service
```
- Now set the zone with FirewallD's `firewall-cmd`:
```
firewall-cmd --permanent --zone=trusted --change-interface=docker0
```

- As NetworkManager is stopped, it won't modify (or even try to create) an `ifcfg-docker0 `file, if NetworkManager was running it would try to create that same file and wouldn't work after reboot. But this time, as Networkmanager is stopped, it will create a file in the other place for configurations, we can see it with:
```
cat /etc/firewalld/zones/trusted.xml
```
...outputs:

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<zone target="ACCEPT">
  <short>Trusted</short>
  <description>All network connections are accepted.</description>
  <interface name="docker0"/>
</zone>
```
...we can see that the `docker0` interface was added to this `trusted` zone by the:

```xml
<interface name="docker0"/>
```

- And now we can start NetworkManager again:
```
systemctl start NetworkManager.service
```

- It is possible that you need to set the zone with NetworkManager again as `firewalld` might have "forgotten" the zone settings, it won't do any harm:
```
nmcli connection modify docker0 connection.zone trusted
```

- We can check that FirewallD thinks that the `docker0` is in the `trusted` zone. Check the zone of the docker0 interface as seen by FirewallD:
```
firewall-cmd --get-zone-of-interface=docker0
```
...outputs:

```
trusted
```
- And NetworkManager also thinks that it is in the `trusted` zone. Check the zone of the docker0 interface as seen by NetworkManager:
```
nmcli connection show docker0 | grep zone
```
...outputs something like:

```
connection.zone:                        trusted
```
- We can restart the system and check that the zone will persist, for both FirewallD and NetworkManager.

- If you already checked that it worked and don't want to restart the system, you still will have to restart the Docker service for it to re-create it's `ipatables` rules:

```
systemctl restart docker.service
```
- If you need to change more things with FirewallD and NetworkManager, or if something doesn't seem to be working, please read that issue in FirewallD, as here I'm not showing a lot of the details: [t-woerner/firewalld#195](https://github.com/firewalld/firewalld/issues/195)

# 参考
- [Docker vs. firewalld on CentOS 7](https://github.com/moby/moby/issues/16137#issuecomment-271615192)